Description
===========

NOTE: Under in development!!!

### Introduction

I decided to create syntax highlighting file for Django Framework for my
favourite text editor Vim.  Some of you would probably say why in the world you
would want to have that? The answer is simple: because.  I just want to have
django specific code in different color then my code.

So the idea was to collect all the function names, constants, function argument
names, classes and assign a greenish tone to them. (But of course you can
create/use your own favourite color scheme.)

Usage of this program precedes of doing a good grep pattern command against source
files, some manual polishing of the resulted file and function execution in
Vim for more polishing.
These Vim functions are also on this repository in file called <functions.vim>.
You simply call these functions on input file as described in their comments.

After that you can use this small python program to format it further and better.
I know it is messy, (grep, vim, manual edit, python..., etc.) but that's the
way it is. It is not some super power app that you use in every day work.


### How this program work?
####  (Preparation work)

Program requires two arguments. An input file name and an output file name.

The input file is generated by grep command which requires a lot of attention
to produce it, most precisely as possible.

Note that in my example below, grep command pattern is specific for Python syntax.
If you grep your source for a different language or more precisely library then
you should adjust that appropriately for that particular circumstance.

In terminal, 'cd' to the root directory of source in which you want to grep.
In my case (but your's definitely differs):
```
  $: cd ~/opt/python/lib/python2.7/site-packages/Django1.4/django/
```

Grep all django functions:
```
  $: grep -r -I --exclude-dir='js' \
          "^\s*def\s\+\w\+(" . | grep -v "\s*def\s\+_\+" ><output_func_file>
```

Grep all django classes:
```
  $: grep -r -I --exclude-dir='js' \
          "^\s*class\s\+\w\+(" . > <output_class_file>
```
Grep all django upper case letter words (constants):
```
  $: grep -r -I --exclude-dir='js' \
          '^\s*[[:upper:]]\{2,\}\(_[[:upper:]]\+\)*\s*=' . ><output_const_file>
```
Grep all django function arguments:
```
  $: grep -r -I --exclude-dir='js' \
          '\(,\s\+\w\{2,\}=\{1\}\|(\w\{2,\}=\{1\}\)' . ><output_args_file>
```

After this operation you end up with three <output_file>.
I have to underline again that it isn't a perfect collection because the grep pattern
may filter out some results that don't match perfectly (eg. it matches
some key words that are only one letter long which I don't want to include in
syntax highlightning, how would that look like if each character would get
syntax highlighting), output of function arguments are pretty nasty, etc...
Thus I have to check and edit the file manualy and delete unnecessary things.

Next, open each <output_file> in text editor:

In normal mode type 'qa' keys sequently,
then type these commands exactly in order they appear!:
  ('q' - starts to record a macro, 'a' - the name of register to store in.)

```
    :0vf:wwhdf(v$hdj
```

Then press again `q' key (stop recording a macro).

I am not going to explain here what these characters means. If you are a
Vim user chances are good that you allready understand these.

Now you type in Normal mode: '<number_of_lines_in_file-1>@a'
In my case I type:

```
    5140@a<enter>
```

NOTE: This will take a minute or two until it finishes.
Then run one of space removal function in `functions.vim' file to remove each
trail space character/s if they exists.
Next do these commands for remined two files for classes and constants.

If you are lucky then everything worked fine.
Save the file and you are good to go.
Use this file as an input file.

Although this process is a bit tricky but if you play with it for two hours you can
probably save your self about two days of typing keywords and avoid any mistyping
errors if you intend to create your own syntax higlighting of some language or library.

Compare two hours of frustration with two days of frustration and still have
some typing errors... I think it is worth to give it a try.


### What is this script doing to the input file?

Goal of this script is to take the input file:
    1. Sort all lines by alphabet
    2. Remove duplicates
    3. Format function names in such way that they don't cross the 80 character long line by appending '\ ' chars at the beggining of each line.
